1)
The Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator (MBTI) is designed to identify a person’s personality type, preferences, weaknesses, strengths, likes and dislikes.

It is basically a self-inventory and it is one of the most widely used psychological instruments in the round the Globe.

MBTI was developed during World War II, where Myers and Briggs began studied, researched and developed an indicator that could help people understand themselves better so that they can lead happier lives.

Myers and Briggs also believed that MBTI could help people choose their profession based on their interests that were best suited to them.

The goal of the MBTI is to allow to further examine and understand their own personalities including their fascinates, possible career preferences, and compatibility with other people.

MBTI is most often used by organizations to help individuals develop themselves, motivate themselves and understanding their communication preference and also to help teams coordinate together. 
//https://www.atlas101.ca/pm/concepts/myers-briggs-personality-type-indicator/

Almost all companies (say 70-80%), depend on these types of tests to hire people who are passionate to work and this results in healthier organizations.


Data from this type of personality tests assist companies better understand their employees’ perspectives and the way they receive and process information. 

Here we can see how organizations make use of MBTI information to build stronger and more successful:

1)Gathering teams together
2)Inspiring employees
3)Helping in communication
4)Leading well
5)Optimisation
6)Less disputes and greater efficiency.


//https://www.forbes.com/sites/elenabajic/2015/09/28/how-the-mbti-can-help-you-build-a-stronger-company/?sh=6cbdc6d8d93c

Personality preference is measured along four dichotomies: 
Extraversion and Introversion 
Sensing/Intuition
Thinking/Feeling and 
Judging/Perceiving. 

Extraversion is someone who enjoys being around the people whereas Introversion is someone who likes being alone.

Sensing and Intuition is something like how a person process the data.Sensing is the one who enjoys facts and easy-going whereas Intuition is one who find deeper meaning in things.

Thinking and Feeling both refers to how we take decisions either by logic or personal opinions.

Judging refers to have prior planning instead of going in a flow; perceiving prefers to keep their options open instead of making a clear plan.

Combinations of the above mentioned dichotomies gives a four-letter acronym that shows the major score on each one.

Each person is said to have one liked quality from each type, producing 16 different personality types. 

According to the MBTI theory, one should merge/combine their preferences to arrive at their personality type. 

The combination of first letters of the four classes gives us the 16 possible personality types.







3.a)
According to my results over 4 dichotomies of MBTI are:

// https://www.crystalknows.com/blog/introvert-vs-extrovert

Extroversion over Introversion which means I would like to prefer social activities like partying, outgoing and staying in large groups rather than solitary activities like being alone,
reserved and staying in smaller groups. 

I would prefer to socialize and welcome social interaction with outsiders.

While communicating with others,I would prefer talking directly eye-to-eye unlike one-to-one, deep conversations.

I tend to excite for little things and seems to be more recognized because of the friendly nature.

// https://www.myersbriggs.org/my-mbti-personality-type/mbti-basics/sensing-or-intuition.htm      The Fundamentals
by Charles R. Martin (CAPT 1997)

Intuition over Sensing is where I trust figures of speech, images, signs instead of trusting experience.

I search for solutions by jumping between various purposes , objectives and probabilities rather than working with actuality.

Instead of finding out the truths, I prefer to see the entire perspective on a situation.


//https://www.myersbriggs.org/my-mbti-personality-type/mbti-basics/thinking-or-feeling.htm

Feeling on top of Thinking : I  can be seen as kindhearted, concerned and optimistic.

I value people in situations about their views and opinions.

Inplace of telling the cold hard facts, I believe being respectful is much better.

I use much of my heart than my head in making decisions.

Mostly, I enjoy in people and communications than technical related stuff using logics etc.


//https://personalitymax.com/personality-types/preferences/judging-perceiving/

Perceiving over judging is like I love to be relaxed and doesn't prefer to have the same routine activities daily.

Just a random thinker (not like the one who thinks and organizes a structured lifestyle).

I play as I work (doesn't consider the final date to complete seriously).

Loves to be more flexible than making scheduled plans.



3.b)

I agree that I'm an Extrovert than Introvert as per MBTI because I love to communicate with people and prefer to socialize as much as possible.

For example, when I joined in my graduation on the very first day while travelling from my location to college I interacted with the people and
got to know much about them and as soon as I entered my class everyone is new to me but I didn't feel nervous to communicate because I'm excited to meet the new people and wanted to have a large group of friends.
As I'm talkative, I had been recognized by most of the people at the earliest and now within 4 years of my graduation, I had plenty of friends and I stay in touch with them most of the time as I like to socialize.
I enjoy being with people, discuss the things and learn new things.

I disagree that I have slight preference of Intuition over Sensing. As I believe my experience more than the images figures,symbols etc.

I learn from my past, I always try to rectify the mistakes I have done and gain more knowledge today, comparing to yesterday.

I often enjoy facts, I pay attention to the information that I can sense it. 

I prefer to follow steps in a sequential manner(step-by-step fashion).

I try my level best to put all my skills to solve the problems as soon as possible.

A small example that I'm being sensitive is like I notice things and prefer to experience all types of activities.


I agree that Feeling tops Thinking as per MBTI test, since I care about the people's opinions and their points of views 
and based on them I take decisons.

I follow my heart and emotions morethan my head( I doesn't do wantedly but it happens more often).

I can be seen as personal more often than detached.

I  primarily make decisions based on values than using logical procedures.

For example, if I was given a team to make some work, I consider all the team members perspection and then make a conclusion.

I disagree that I have Perceiving on top of Judging because I basically schedule list of things to be done in a day before the day starts.

I never do things randomly as I wanted to make prior planning instead of going in a flow.

I always prefer to complete the given tasks quickly.

For example, when any work is assigned to me I like to get my work done before playing, I plan accordingly to complete the work to avoid run before the deadline.



3.c)

//https://www.verywellmind.com/enfp-an-overview-of-the-champion-personality-type-2795980

I strongly believe that one should have strong communication skills to be  as a leader. Being an extrovert, I can freely communicate with everyone having no barriers.

In addition to this, being active, warm and enthusiastic also gives a major impact on being as a leader.

Being quick to actions, being fun and spontaneous also adds as a big strength to be as a leader.

A leader must be able to capitalize on strengths and improve on weaknesses.


As having a Feeling trait, whenever I want to make a decision, I need approval from others and I really care about their opinions
but this leads to weakness sometimes because if we need approval from everyone it takes long time and when deadline arrives, we need to rush.

Getting easily distracted, particularly when they are working on something that seems boring or uninspiring and getting stressed out easily are the weaknesses.
Inorder to get rid out of this, exercises and feeling calm or meditation are the solutions to overcome these weaknesses.

Having a Feeling trait,being overly emotional is natural.Emotions are not a weakness but being overly emotional is a weakness if it disturbs your professional life.

Never involve your personal and professional life. If you feel extra sensitive on any day, it will definitely affects that day.


//https://www.themyersbriggs.com/en-US/Connect-with-us/Blog/2017/March/The-Importance-of-Good-Judgement--Values-Leaders--the-MBTI-Assessment

Being Extrovert plays a major role as a leader since it needs strong communication skills.
Being Judgement effects leader in a positive way as we know that task will be completed on time with proper schedule and plans.
Being Perceiving effects leader in a negative way because without any prior plan cannot complete task successfully.








